README.md, before:

# CDA-LDA-Classification
Project related to CDA and LDA classification (cross platform)

**Dependencies**
Classification Part 1 requires ENVI's IMSL license, which was on Raider's 32-bit ENVI + IDL
(currently on ariel will only run 8 mins - will be moved to Raider)
Need to run IDL code on IDL 64 bit without ENVI

**Code Order**
*Building spectral libraries:
Use ENVI and VIPER Tools 2.0 to build library (see steps below)
fillingOutENVISpectralLibraryMetadata.py
strip_redundant_spectra.pro
sample_spectral_lib.pro

*Developing CDA coefficients:
Develop_CDA_coeff.m (this calls three functions listed below)
  ReadSpecLib_wfullmeta.m
  CDA_manova.m
  writeCDAvars.m

*Classification:
create_cda_image_wo_control_file.pro
image_classify_w_lda_wo_control_file_Part1.pro
image_classify_w_lda_wo_control_file_Part2.pro

*Accuracy Assessment
Use ENVI to Extract ROI information from classified image
pullingOutROIInfo.py
pullingOutROIval.py
calcclassificationresults.py
LoopFilesPullClassificationStats.py
LoopFilesPullCDAVars.py

**DESCRIPTION OF CODE**
*Building spectral libraries:
1. Load image that spectra will be selected from in ENVI + IDL.
2. Load Vector of polygons -> Vector> Open Vector File
3. Export vector data into ROI
     File > Export Layers to ROI
     Select Data File to Associate with new ROIs
     Export EVF Layers to ROI > Convert each record of an EVF layer to new ROI > Polygon ID
4. Open ROI Tool (to check that ROIs have transferred)
     Image Display> Tools > Region of Interest > ROI Tool
5. Open VIPER Tools 2.0 (Spectral > VIPER Tools)
6. Create/Manage Spectral Library > Build Library from ROIs
     *Note you must have image with ROIs pulled up in a display
7. Create Metadata for spectral library
8. Use python code fillingOutENVISpectralLibraryMetadata.py to fill out metadata 
9. Use strip_redundant_spectra.pro to remove duplicate spectra 
10. Use sample_spectral_lib.pro with a control file to create training and validation libraries from an input spectral library using user-defined thresholds for sampling from each dominant species randomly. Two libraries with associated metadata are output, one training data set and one validation data set.

*Developing CDA Coefficients:
1. Develop_CDA_coeff.m: this calls three functions listed below
2. ReadSpecLib_wfullmeta.m: this function reads a spectral library (created in ENVI VIPER tools) so that it can be worked with to develop CDA coefficients.
3. CDA_manova.m: This function creates the CDA coefficients and does accuracy assessment
4. writeCDAvars.m: This function creates a .csv file with the CDA coefficients

*Classification:
1. create_cda_lib_wo_control_file.pro: This step creates the CDA training spectral library
2. create_cda_image_wo_control_file.pro: This program takes a set of CDA coefficients and a reflectance image and creates an output image of the CDA variables.
3. image_classify_w_lda_wo_control_file_Part1.pro: This step reads in the CDA training spectral library and runs LDA classification and outputs library to csv
4. image_classify_w_lda_wo_control_file_Part2.pro This step classifies the CDA image created previously and classifies the image using the LDA classification library created in step above.

*Accuracy Assessment
1. Use ENVI to Extract ROI information from classified image
2. pullingOutROIInfo.py: Reads through ENVI ASCII file (output from ROI extraction) and puts into .csv for easy reading
3. pullingOutROIval.py: Reads through .csv of ROI information and pulls out rows that are to be used in validation
4. calcclassificationresults.py: This code reads in ROI formated csv (formatted using pullingOutROIInfo.py) and calculates classification results including producers, users, overal, and kappa accuracy results are output to a csv
5. OPTIONAL: If you've run multiple CDA-LDA classifications and want to compare model results use LoopFilesPullClassificationStats.py which reads through .csvs and pulls out the producers, users, overal, and kappa accuracy results are output to a csv
6. OPTIONAL: If you've run multiple CDA-LDA classifications and want to compare CDA coefficients use LoopFilesPullCDAVars.py which reas through .csvs and pulls out CDA variables.

Commit message:

Update steps for accuracy assessment
Fixed steps to include filling out metadata in the accuracy assessment
stage.

README.md, after:

# CDA-LDA-Classification
Project related to CDA and LDA classification (cross platform)

**Dependencies**
Classification Part 1 requires ENVI's IMSL license, which was on Raider's 32-bit ENVI + IDL
(currently on ariel will only run 8 mins - will be moved to Raider)
Need to run IDL code on IDL 64 bit without ENVI

**Code Order**
*Building spectral libraries:
Use ENVI and VIPER Tools 2.0 to build library (see steps below)
fillingOutENVISpectralLibraryMetadata.py
strip_redundant_spectra.pro
sample_spectral_lib.pro

*Developing CDA coefficients:
Develop_CDA_coeff.m (this calls three functions listed below)
  ReadSpecLib_wfullmeta.m
  CDA_manova.m
  writeCDAvars.m

*Classification:
create_cda_image_wo_control_file.pro
image_classify_w_lda_wo_control_file_Part1.pro
image_classify_w_lda_wo_control_file_Part2.pro

*Accuracy Assessment
Use ENVI to Extract ROI information from classified image
pullingOutROIInfo.py
pullingOutROIval.py
calcclassificationresults.py
LoopFilesPullClassificationStats.py
LoopFilesPullCDAVars.py

**DESCRIPTION OF CODE**
*Building spectral libraries:
1. Load image that spectra will be selected from in ENVI + IDL.
2. Load Vector of polygons -> Vector> Open Vector File
3. Export vector data into ROI
     File > Export Layers to ROI
     Select Data File to Associate with new ROIs
     Export EVF Layers to ROI > Convert each record of an EVF layer to new ROI > Polygon ID
4. Open ROI Tool (to check that ROIs have transferred)
     Image Display> Tools > Region of Interest > ROI Tool
5. Open VIPER Tools 2.0 (Spectral > VIPER Tools)
6. Create/Manage Spectral Library > Build Library from ROIs
     *Note you must have image with ROIs pulled up in a display
7. Create Metadata for spectral library
8. Use python code fillingOutENVISpectralLibraryMetadata.py to fill out metadata 
9. Use strip_redundant_spectra.pro to remove duplicate spectra 
10. Use sample_spectral_lib.pro with a control file to create training and validation libraries from an input spectral library using user-defined thresholds for sampling from each dominant species randomly. Two libraries with associated metadata are output, one training data set and one validation data set.

*Developing CDA Coefficients:
1. Develop_CDA_coeff.m: this calls three functions listed below
2. ReadSpecLib_wfullmeta.m: this function reads a spectral library (created in ENVI VIPER tools) so that it can be worked with to develop CDA coefficients.
3. CDA_manova.m: This function creates the CDA coefficients and does accuracy assessment
4. writeCDAvars.m: This function creates a .csv file with the CDA coefficients

*Classification:
1. create_cda_lib_wo_control_file.pro: This step creates the CDA training spectral library
2. create_cda_image_wo_control_file.pro: This program takes a set of CDA coefficients and a reflectance image and creates an output image of the CDA variables.
3. image_classify_w_lda_wo_control_file_Part1.pro: This step reads in the CDA training spectral library and runs LDA classification and outputs library to csv
4. image_classify_w_lda_wo_control_file_Part2.pro This step classifies the CDA image created previously and classifies the image using the LDA classification library created in step above.

*Accuracy Assessment
1. Use ENVI to Extract ROI information from classified image
2. pullingOutROIInfo.py: Reads through ENVI ASCII file (output from ROI extraction) and puts into .csv for easy reading
3. Use python code fillingOutENVISpectralLibraryMetadata.py to fill out metadata 
4. pullingOutROIval.py: Reads through .csv of ROI information and pulls out rows that are to be used in validation
5. calcclassificationresults.py: This code reads in ROI formated csv (formatted using pullingOutROIInfo.py) and calculates classification results including producers, users, overal, and kappa accuracy results are output to a csv
6. OPTIONAL: If you've run multiple CDA-LDA classifications and want to compare model results use LoopFilesPullClassificationStats.py which reads through .csvs and pulls out the producers, users, overal, and kappa accuracy results are output to a csv
7. OPTIONAL: If you've run multiple CDA-LDA classifications and want to compare CDA coefficients use LoopFilesPullCDAVars.py which reas through .csvs and pulls out CDA variables.
